Database:- is a organized collection of data. it is collection of tables, queries, reports, view and other object.
Ex:- Airline Booking Data.

DBMS:-
-DBMS stores data as File.
-Normalization is not present in DBMS
-It does-not support Distributed data.
-EX;XML

RDBMS:-
-RDBMS stores data, in Tabular form.
-Normalization is present.
-It support Distributed data.
-Ex:MySQL, ms-acess, SQL server, Orcle, PostgreSQL.

Distributed DB:-represent multiple interconnected database, spred out across, several sites connected by network.
    -Homogenous databases allow users to access data from each of the databases
    -Heterogeneous a particular site can be completely unaware, of other sites

What can we stor in Database:- text, number, picture.

Learn:- https://www.integrate.io/blog/the-sql-vs-nosql-difference/#two

SQL:- is a programing langvage, that is used to interact with relational database.
ex:- we are building an application or software, now our application definetly need data,
     but the data is genrally not stored in the application itself,
     most cases the data is stored in the relational database.
Ex:-Tou have an application its needs data, the data is stored in the relational database,
     so thers need to be a way for ur application to interact with ur Relational database.

The Relational database understand only one langvage, that is SQL.

There are several different types of Relational database:-The most imp is:-
1)MySQL
2)Oracle
3)Microsoft SQl Server
4)PostgreSQL

RoadMap:-https://techtfq.com/blog/how-to-learn-sql-for-free-roadmap-to-learning-sql

Relational V/S Non-Relational database:-
(a)Relational DB:-
    A relational database/RDMS, stores information in tables.
    It support SQL query language.
    It not suitable for Hierarchical data storage.
    Often, thes tables have share information b/w them, causing a relationship to from between tables.
    Each table, will have a column, that must have unique values- known as the primary key.
  
    Adv:-                              Div:-
    ACID compliance                    Scalability
    Data accuracy                      Flexibility
    Normalization                      Performance
    Simplicity

(b)Non-Relational DB:-
    Non-relational DB, some time we called NoSQL.
    is any kind of data, does not use the tables, rows & column structure data concept, from relational database.
    It making them great at, Horizontal Scaling.
    It support JSON query language.
    It is suitable for Hierarchical data storage.
  
    There are a few different groups of database types that store the data in different ways:-
    Document DB
    Key-Value DB
    Graph DB
    Wide-column DB

Difference:
SQL is primarily used to query and operate database systems.
MySQL allows you to handle, store, modify delete data and store data in an organized way.

In comparision to the sql server, MongoDB is faster & more scalable.
The sql server does not accommodate, large amount of data, However MongoDB does.

API: is an abbrevation for application programing language.
It is a collection of Communication protocals & Subroutines.
